Ls 452 troubleshooting (#40)
datastax/pulsar-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshooting.adoc

= Troubleshooting

> Find troubleshooting help in these sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot Luna Streaming, look at these potential issues:
```

* xref:troubleshooting.adoc#checkquotas[**Insufficient Quota**]
* xref:troubleshooting.adoc#containerspending[**Containers in Pending State**]
* xref:troubleshooting.adoc#bastionpod[**Using the Bastion Pod**]

[#checkquotas]
== Check quotas

> In some cases, pods can become "unhealthy" and the root cause may be an insufficient quota. You can check quotas in the cloud provider's UI. For example, in the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) console, check for any unhealthy pods in your GKE project. Then in the IAM &amp; Admin section of the GCP console, navigate to Quotas. Look for any reported issues with backend services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, pods can become unhealthy. The root cause might be an insufficient quota. You can check quotas in the cloud provider's user interface. For example, in the Google Cloud (GCP) console, check for any unhealthy pods in your GKE project. Then in the *IAM & Admin* section of the GCP console, navigate to *Quotas*. Look for any reported issues with backend services:
```

Reviewer: Should we add instructions for each cloud provider here?

image::gcp-quota-example1.png[GCP Quota]

> From the GCP Admin Quotas display:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the GCP Console *Quotas* display:
```

> 1. Select the row for the service name that is reporting a quota issue
> 2. Click **All Quotas** from the Details column
> 3. Check the box for the affected quota, and click **Edit Quota**. 
> 4. The dialog indicates: "Enter a new quota limit. Your request will be sent to your service provider for approval." Examine the displayed current value and set a new value. 
> 5. Enter a brief request description and click **Next**.
> 6. Verify your contact information, and click **Submit Request**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the row for the service name that is reporting a quota issue.
. Select **All Quotas** from the *Details* column.
. Check the box for the affected quota, and select **Edit Quota**. 
+
The dialog indicates: "Enter a new quota limit. Your request will be sent to your service provider for approval." 

. Examine the displayed current value and set a new value. 
. Enter a brief request description, and select **Next**.
. Verify your contact information, and select **Submit Request**.
```

> Notice how in the following example the Backend services quota is set to '5', and we're changing it to '50'. For the K8ssandra deployments (Stargate, cass-operator, Reaper, Medusa, and so on), actually `10` might be a sufficient quota.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the Backend services quota is set to '5'. We're changing it to '50'. For the K8ssandra deployments, such as Stargate, cass-operator, Reaper, and Medusa, `10` might be a sufficient quota.
```

image::gcp-quota-example2.png[GCP Backend Quota]

[#containerspending]

> == Containers in pending state 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Containers in *Pending* state 
```

> If your pods are stuck in Pending state after installation, or your cloud provider is warning you about Unschedulable Pods, there are a few ways to work through this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your pods are stuck in a *Pending* state after installation or your cloud provider is warning you about *Unschedulable Pods*, there are a few ways to work through this:
```

> * If some of your pods start, but others like `pulsar-adminconsole` and `pulsar-grafana` are left in an unschedulable state, you might need to add CPUs to your existing nodes, or add an additional node pool. Luna Streaming requires more resources than Pulsar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If some of your pods start, but others like `pulsar-adminconsole` and `pulsar-grafana` are left in an *Unschedulable* state, you might need to add CPUs to your existing nodes or an additional node pool. Luna Streaming requires more resources than Apache Pulsar. 
```

Reviewer: What is the trademark for Apache Pulsar? Need to add it here.

* To examine a specific pod, use `kubectl describe`. For example, if your `pulsar-bookkeeper-0` pod is not scheduling, use `kubectl describe pods/pulsar-bookkeeper-0` to view detailed output on the pod's state, dependencies, and events. 

* To view log output for a specific pod, use `kubectl logs`. Continuing with the `pulsar-bookkeeper-0` example, to get logs for this pod use `kubectl logs pulsar-bookkeeper-0`. If this pod spans multiple containers, add the flag `--all-containers=true`. 

[#bastionpod]

> == Bastion Pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Bastion pod
```

> The bastion pod deploys with Luna Streaming and allows a user to execute administrative commands in a bash shell of the cluster. This can be a handy troubleshooting tool for testing the health of your cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bastion pod deploys with Luna Streaming and allows a user to execute administrative commands in a bash shell of the cluster. This can be a helpful troubleshooting tool for testing the health of your cluster. 
```

=== Set up bastion pod

> To use the bastion pod after installation, access the shell of the bastion pod (here we are using namespace `default`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the bastion pod after installation, access the shell of the bastion pod. Let's use the namespace `default`:
```

Reviewer: Is the bastion pod automatically a part of Pulsar? We might need to state that explicitly. At first, I thought the step was to install the bastion pod.

----

> kubectl -n default exec $(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=pulsar,component=bastion" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") -it -- bash

Reviewer: Let's think about splitting this command across lines, but ensure it is formatted correctly to work as a command.

----

> This sets you up in a bash shell that looks like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your bash shell will then show that you are in your bastion pod: 
```

----
pulsar@pulsar-bastion-78d4cd74ff-ctvvh:/pulsar$
----

=== Test bastion pod

Ensure your bastion pod sees your cluster with `pulsar admin namespaces list public`. It should return a list of your public namespaces:

----
"public/default"
"public/functions"
----

> If you get `bash: admin: command not found`, try moving into the `bin` directory with `cd bin`. You may need to append your command with `./`, for example `./pulsar-admin get pods`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get `bash: admin: command not found`, move into the `bin` directory with `cd bin`. You might need to append your command with `./`, for example `./pulsar-admin get pods`.
```

> If the shell finds no resources, you may not have any public namespaces. Create a public namespace with `pulsar-admin namespaces create public/default`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the shell finds no resources, you might not have any public namespaces. Create a public namespace with `pulsar-admin namespaces create public/default`. 
```

=== Publish a message

To test your Pulsar cluster with the bastion pod, produce a message with `pulsar-client` through the bastion pod shell: 

`pulsar-client produce my-test-topic --messages "hello-pulsar"`

You should receive a confirmation the message was produced:

`00:16:37.970 [main] INFO  org.apache.pulsar.client.cli.PulsarClientTool - 1 messages successfully produced`

> This means your Pulsar cluster is functional. 

Reviewer: Because this is troubleshooting, what would happen if it doesn't work correctly?

> == Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== What's next?
```

> To view your cluster, brokers, and connectors in a UI, see the xref::admin-console-tutorial.adoc[Admin Console Tutorial].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view your cluster, brokers, and connectors in a user interface, see the xref::admin-console-tutorial.adoc[Admin Console Tutorial].
```
